Johnathan Smith
CS350
2/25/2026
  For my journal, I decided to focus on my submission from project 1 where I did an assessment report on the provided company as well as reviewing and understanding the OWASP dependency report. The company I had to review and provide insight for was Artemis Financial. This is a financial consulting company that develops individualized financial plans for its customers. Due to the sensitive data that this company is processing within its applications, the company requires security enhancements for its overall application. The focus was to ensure was the exposure of vulnerabilities within its existing software that could lead to the release of customer information due to unauthorized access or external attacks. My role here was to identify vulnerabilities in secure communication, data handling, dependency usage, and input validation. After any opportunities are identified, I would then refactor the code to ensure the data available remained confidential and secure. 
	During the code review, I identified some hard-coded credentials within some of the classes, lack of input validation, improper access modifiers, and several unsecured API input parameters. Each of these played a huge factor in allowing much easier access for an attacker to apply simple techniques that would cause errors in the application leading to potential SQL injection or cross-site scripting attacks. Utilizing encapsulation, cleaned up input handling, and placing the credentials in secure locations allowed me to refactor the code in a way to increase security drastically. Having a security focused mindset is extremely important, especially in the application of this nature. The smallest vulnerabilities can allow an attacker to exploit a minor process failure which could lead them to take full control or allow them access to client information. This could lead to financial loss, reputational damage, or even potential legal consequences. Also, maintaining secure application will continue to build customer trust and allow the company to grow and ensure consistent regulatory compliance within data laws. 
	I would have to say as having little to no experience, utilizing maven and interpreting the OWASP dependency-check report was quite challenging. Of course, the report itself generated a substantial number of CVEs across multiple libraries which was overwhelming when first running. I did appreciate how much information it provided and after doing additional research, I found that it had quite a few fixes embedded as well as seeing some opportunities in the code itself due to these vulnerabilities identified. This also helped me see how utilizing third-party can incorporate considerable other opportunities that may not be easily understood without using this report. 
	After addressing some of the identified vulnerabilities, I compiled and ran the application to make sure it still functioned as expected and that any provided updates did not cause any unusual behavior when re-running the application. To ensure my incorporated code fixes remained secure, I ran an additional analysis using the OWASP dependency-check tool. After reviewing this, I was able to determine that the changes I made did not introduce anything more that would be a vulnerability. This was a very important step that would need to be performed consistently through the development process as one change could lead to considerable vulnerabilities, especially when utilizing third-party libraries. 
	For this development project, I utilized the OWASP dependency-check tool to perform an analysis on the application. Maven also played a huge role in this design process that assisted me in running the vulnerability scans. Additionally, from previous knowledge I was able to effectively identify opportunities with encapsulation, input validation, and recognize hard coded credentials. The reading that was available did touch on some of these topics, but without earlier knowledge from java and visual basic, it would have been difficult to find some of these coding opportunities. Utilizing these resources will be extremely helpful as security of an application needs to be at the forefront of the design process when making an application. The work that is created by yourself or others needs to be safeguarded no matter what kind of information may be present. Learning how to review these reports and follow through with secure coding standards will continue to enforce a security first mindset. 
	After finishing this assignment, I can confidently say that I have a strong foundation on manually reviewing a software codebase to identify potential security vulnerabilities. I still have a lot of room to grow, but being able to find opportunities such as input validation, hard-coded credentials, and improper access modifiers is a huge step in having a security first mindset. I would also be able to demonstrate my ability to run and interpret the OWASP dependency check tool which would be a viable asset in finding vulnerabilities that are present or could be created during the development life cycle.  I will continue to expand on this knowledge and research further to have updated knowledge on the expectations of secure coding standards. This assignment also does a great job of reflecting my ability to improve the security of an application without compromising its functionality. 
# CS350
